Hey, and welcome back.
Well, now we're in Figma and we're going to talk about responsive grids.
Now, you may be designing for multiple screens.
I mean, we do that a lot and grids can really help with that.
We just spoke about layout grids and typographic grids and the history of grids.
But, you know, grids are used to scale up and down to display information on multiple set of screens.
So let's jump in.
We have some cool demos here.
First is the fixed grid.
Now the fixed grid has a fixed container with position.
I can demonstrate how this works.
So as you adjust the frame.
This container that's housing, the actual layout grid is going to stay fixed and all the elements within
it will stay fixed as well.
So this actually maintains the exact measurements while the margin sizes increase or decrease.
Like this, even when I decrease it like that, they will stay fixed.
Now, this is great if you want all your elements to stay proportional, but when you get to larger
streams, you may end up with way too much white space.
Like this would be an extra large desktop screen and you're like, Wow, that's a lot of whitespace
right there.
There are ways to handle that.
But fixed grids aren't really used as much anymore, so let's just put that back there.
Next is the fluid grid.
Now, this is really cool.
Now, fluid grids are measured in percentages, so the columns of the grid or your entire grid will
shrink or grow depending on the size of your screen.
Let me show you what I mean.
So here is our grid.
And you'll notice when I stretch it, the columns will stretch to.
And when I shrink it, the columns and the content shrink as well.
All of these sizes will increase and decrease based off of percentages.
That's kind of cool, right?
You know what's even cooler.
Take a look at those margins and gutters.
Let's zoom in now.
We've got margins on the right, gutters in the middle.
Look at that.
They aren't even.
Shrinking.
We're growing.
The only thing that shrinks and grows is the size of your column, your gutters and your margins will
always stay the same.
They don't change and they adhere to your base unit.
So in this case, let's take a look.
This is our layover here.
We've got 24 pixel gutter and 24 pixel margin, and they are staying the same.
Now, one con is that when you're on larger screens and you want to utilize some extra space, sometimes
your content may look kind of stretched out, but there's ways to handle that.
You could actually define a set with for your container, but still have it be responsive.
Now responsive grids.
Here we have a set of four.
Over here.
This is always kind of a topic that designers like to kind of not really talk about as much.
You know, we need to always keep breakpoints in mind when we're designing for responsive layouts.
As you notice, based off of our little demonstration there with fixed and fluid content, content will
stretch and shrink depending on your screen size.
And that's fine.
We expect that we can't run away from this, but we have a way to work around this.
So breakpoints allow us to scale up.
And down our design based off of desktop and mobile.
So we have extra large screens, large, medium, small.
So this is probably like a tablet.
This is your mobile screen, probably like your regular laptop or small desktop and even larger screens.
The first step is to always establish the set of breakpoints Don't worry too much.
There's a bunch of literature out there about certain breakpoints and what works best, but here's a
set of breakpoints that I always use, and it helps me get started on projects.
So from small, let's zoom in here.
This one's at 375, but I usually define it by a little bit larger.
I think 600 is fine for smaller phones.
Something like that.
This is just like your typical size of like an iPhone X screen or an excess medium.
You got 600 to 899.
This one's at 904.
So you get.
There you go.
I could just bring that up.
And then larger.
We have 902 1199.
So this one we can fix to that.
Let's move over our content.
You see, sometimes there's a really large screens that we need to think about.
This would be our large medium.
Something like that.
For small and for an extra large, it's 1200 pixels, width and above.
These breakpoints will help you define small, medium, large and extra large breakpoints.
And you can definitely modify your layout grid to change dramatically based off of that breakpoint or
if you can change slightly.
So let's take a look what we got here after we modify it just a bit.
Let's just align them together.
There you go.
We just distributed horizontally.
So we can see on our extra large column grid, we have a 12 column grid.
And when we move a little bit down to large, nothing really changes with the layout, but we still
have the same type of column grid.
And when we move down to a medium grid, we start seeing some changes.
We can use a six column grid.
This would be typically a smaller laptop screen or even a tablet.
So we start thinking about things like How are these users actually experiencing our product?
Do we need to scale down elements?
Do we need to scale up elements just to keep them tappable.
And on small.
Like I said before, you could use like a two column grid, but I think that really limits you.
So over here I have a six column grid.
So we have.
Two items together on there, and we can even do three items on this one.
It gives you a little bit more variety.
Before I said I like a column grids and I'll show you what that looks like.
So I'm going to just do is zoom out here.
I'm going to copy this over here so we can work on it.
And we're going to change the columns from 6 to 8.
Now that kind of looks skinny, doesn't give us much breathing room and the margin in the gutter, you
can tell we'll play around with red.
So it's easily visible.
You have four columns on to half the column grid, but you can even like if you want to have things
kind of scale off the page a little bit.
And have that as a swiping behavior.
You can do that.
Another really nice thing you can do on a column grid is have something really large.
I like that.
And you can sleep like that, which is really great.
Know, let's just kind of set that back.
Actually, we can just delete this.
Okay.
So these are fluid layouts.
Once we stretches out like it will give us an indication on if we need to actually scale up your design,
if we need to scale down certain components, like I mentioned before.
But this is where you should probably start if you have to actually build a product or a website based
off of or that allows for multiple screens.